you can send push notifications from server side to a device with the help of Firebase services ( more precisely FCM -Firebase Cloud Messaging ), 
all it takes that the device must be connected to the internet + some config that we will see

how ?

First of all , you have to register your app for FCM service ( check docs ) , to enable it to request and generate FCM tokens that we will see later what they are.
		And once the app is registered for FCM service it willbe listenening to any notification sent by FCM .

Second , once the app is registered for a firebase project ( FCM service ) it will request a token for the device , that token is UNIQUE for that device.
	now you can easily send notifications from FCM service to your app using that token 

	FCM service , if you visit it and set up your project to use it , it has an interface to send PUSH notifications to a specific device
	The interface has Token field , where you input the device UNIQUE token requested by the app and generated by FCM then sent to the app ( thats code thing )
	Also the interface has Notification title + body ,

	You fill those fields with the corresponding infos , then when you click send , the app will listen to that notificaion ( will catch it ) and there you handle the display of the 	notificaions..

Also there is kinda more configuration for this to run , when registering your app for the firebase project ( that got many services including FCM ) it will generate a filecalled google service , that you have to pass to your android folder ( check docs ) + some packages that are easy to configure ( check docs )


now maybe you might be wondering , this is sending it from firebase to my device, but in most cases we want to push the notification from not the firebase interface but from the server side withi some endpoint ( notify user of new messages , order updates .. ) how can i send a notification from the server side to my app?

The answer :

You see the FCM inteface where we input the tokens and notification title and body and all ? that can be configured fro our backend without needing that interface so that everything will happen automatically without the need of pressing Click Send Notifications.

All you have to do ( as in our case , expressJS backend ) , you need to install FCM admin package that will handle that interface things. 

then you add the boilerplate for FCM admin configuration in your backend ( check docs )

then once the FCM ADMIN is set up ,it will offer a function that does what that interface does , a function to send notification to the device , that function has Token , Body , Title and many more ... as parameters.

you just need to pass the corresponding token of device that may be stored in database or idk how you willhandle tokens storage.

then u call this function within the endpoint where you want the device to be notified when this endpoint is triggered... for exemple updating order status endpoint ect